MDA Utilities
December 2006

--------------------------------------------------------------
mda2ascii v0.3.2
mda-dump v0.1.1
mda-info v0.1.1
mda-load library v0.1.1

Written by Dohn A. Arms, Argonne National Laboratory
Send comments to dohnarms@anl.gov

See LICENSE file for licensing of these programs and code.
--------------------------------------------------------------


These utilities are used for accessing MDA files generated by the
saveData routine in EPICS, and can handles MDA files of any dimension.



Utilities:
-----------

1) mda2ascii - This program converts MDA files to ASCII files, with
various options, so the data can be read directly into a
plotting/fitting program.  The instructions for use can be found by
running "mda2ascii -h" or reading the man page (there is a PDF version
included).

2) mda-dump - This program will dump to the screen the entire contents
of an MDA file, exactly as how they appear in the file.  This program
can be useful for debugging purposes.  The source code is an example
on how to use the mda_load routines.

3) mda-info - This program will print to the screen a brief set of
information about an MDA file.  It shows about the file, among other
things, the time, the dimensionality, and the outermost positioner(s)
used.  This program does not use the mda-load library, so that the
entire file is not loaded, and to make it fast.

4) mda-load library - This is the engine used for reading the MDA
files.  The library functions are quite simple, as there are only two.
Accessing the data -- due to the arbitrary dimensional nature of the
MDA files -- can be complicated, and familiarity with structures and
pointers in C is a must.  The manual for it is mda-load.pdf, and
reading mda-load.h can be helpful.  It could be built as a shared
library, but since it is rather small and different systems utilize
shared libraries differently, I didn't set this up.



Requirements:
-------------

MDA Utilities have been successfully compiled on Linux, Solaris, and
Mac OS X using gcc, make, and ar.  I am sure it would be simple to
compile it on other UNIX platforms using other compilers, but I have
no way to try.

The only library requirement is access to the standard XDR routines.
With Linux, they're are part of glibc (Linux's standard C library),
while with Solaris, they are part of the standard Networking Services
Library (nsl).  I've been told the utilities compile under Mac OS X
using the Linux configuration.  So, no extra packages should have to
be installed.

This will not be ported to Windows (at least by me), so don't ask.



Compiling:
----------

If building from source code, all you need to do is type "make" when
in the source directory, and the executables and library should be
made.



Installing:
-----------

This assumes you are installing it system-wide.  If you are using it
locally, put the files wherever you want, and skip this section.  You
don't have to install everything; you can simply install the
executables and forget the rest.

Assume you are installing into the "/usr/local" tree:
  Copy "mda2ascii", "mda-dump", and "mda-info" to "/usr/local/bin".
  Copy "mda2ascii.1", "mda-dump.1", and "mda-info.1" to "/usr/local/man/man1".
  Copy "libmda-load.a" to "/usr/local/lib".  
  Copy "mda-load.h" to "/usr/local/include".

